mind your decisions I'm presh tal Walker
simplify the following expression log
base 2 of 3 multiplied by log base 3 of
4 multiplied by log base 4 of 5 and so
on until the final term log base 127 of
128 I adapted this problem from a post I
saw on reddit homework help pause if
you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
recall the change of base formula for
logarithms log base B of U is equal to
log base a of U divided by log base a of
B this is for u greater than zero and a
and be positive real numbers that are
not equal to one for the special case
where a is equal to e we simplify this
to the natural log of U over the natural
log of B we'll use this version of the
formula to simplify this product the
first term becomes the natural log of 3
over the natural log of 2 the second
term becomes the natural log of 4 over
the natural log of 3 we continue to
apply this formula all the way to the
very end of this product we then notice
an interesting pattern natural log of 3
in the numerator of the first term will
cancel with natural log of 3 in the
denominator of the second term then the
natural log of 4 will cancel out between
the second and third terms and this
pattern will continue all the way to the
very final term the pattern is
reminiscent of a retracting telescope
where only the very beginning and the
very end survived for this reason it's
known as a telescoping product only the
very beginning and the very end survived
we can then simplify this formula one
more time using the change of base
formula the natural log of 128 over the
natural log of 2 will be equal to log
base 2 of 128 128 is equal to 2 to the
power 7 and therefore this simplifies to
be 7 and that's our answer I love how
this problem miraculously simplifies
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]